[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: Hello,
my name's Gregg Braden.
And I know that if
you're watching me today,
you have seen the
program "Missing Links."
And we have a lot of
people that are asking me
questions behind the scenes.
What has happened in my life?
What was involved?
What have I found?
When I was putting that
information together
and I think you're
probably aware
it's just the tip of
the iceberg of all
of the research that went into
putting this series together.
We know our world is changing.
And I think one of the most
common themes of the questions
that people ask me from all
over the world, every culture,
every continent that I'm
on, two things, economy,
self-sustainability-- how do
we bring those into our lives?
And that's what I want to
talk to you about today.
So when I hear questions
coming to me about economy,
one of the first
things that I found
is that the word itself
means different things
to different people.
Economy for some
people is about money.
But I want to say,
today, that economy
is much more than money.
It can be about money
but it's more about us.
It's about people.
It's about the way we share the
things that we need to sustain
us in our everyday lives.
The way we share food, energy,
medicine, communications,
the vital things that are
necessary in everyday life.
Those are the things that are
changing in our world today.
We have found ourselves in a
world where much of our economy
has been centralized.
And what's changing, now,
in our time of extremes,
is we see the climate change.
And we see all of the
factors of conflict,
and we see all the factors of
the financial economy changing.
All those systems
coming together.
What we're finding is, this
centralized model no longer
works anymore.
So when people ask me,
what is it that they
can do in their own lives?
The answer for me
is very simple.
The key is a localized economy.
Localized economy,
what does that mean?
It means living within our
means in a local community
while that community is part of
an even greater community that
can be a nation,
it can be a planet.
It means localized
forms of energy.
sources of food.
It means localized businesses.
It means localized
money, localized loans.
These are the things that
are sustainable in a time
of extremes when
the world is going
through a time of such
volatility and uncertainty.
It is the fragile centralized
system that is most at risk.
And it's this system
that you and I sense.
We feel it.
We don't need
someone to tell us.
We know this system is at risk.
And this is where a lot
of the fear comes from.
What if?
What if the banks fail?
What if the storms
from the climate change
are so bad that delivery trucks
can't come across the roads
into the mountain communities
of Colorado and New Mexico?
Which has just
happened recently.
These are a real time thing.
This isn't just a make
believe hypothesis.
What do we do then?
And this is where
people get nervous.
The key here, in
localized living,
is we don't have to worry
about any of those things.
Let me just give
you a quick example.
A couple of years ago,
there was a bacteria
that was found on certain kinds
of fruits, melons, cantaloupes,
that were being grown in
portions of the Rocky Mountain
area.
And they pulled these from
the grocery store shelves.
They were warning people
not to eat these things.
They were having the same
problems with lettuces.
There were having the same
problems with broccoli.
And there was another
bacterial issue with eggs,
with fresh eggs.
I live in the high deserts
of northern New Mexico,
a rural localized economy.
We went to our
neighborhood restaurants
and we had no problem.
We didn't have to worry
about any of those things,
because our food came
from about a block away
from where the restaurant
was, farm to table.
And I know, many of
you listening to this,
you're already experiencing
this because it has made sense.
What I want you to know is that
it's more than a convenience.
This is the way of sustainable
living in our future.
And just as the
localized sources of food
work to help us provide reliable
systems that we can count on,
the same thing is
true for energy.
Energy is determined
by environment.
Not every environment supports
the same kind of energy.
If your living out West
and you have a lot of sun,
solar makes tremendous sense.
If you're living under
a lot of cloud cover
in a rainforest in
Byron Bay, Australia,
it doesn't make
quite so much sense.
There are other forms of energy.
The key is that one
size does not fit all.
And this is where the
centralized model in the past
has gotten us into trouble.
It has invited us to rely
upon a single source of energy
mostly burning of fossil fuels
that we know is not sustainable
and it's causing
more problems now
when, in fact, we have so many
localized and sustainable ways
of living.
And some of them are
conventional, some of them
are unconventional.
We all know about wind.
Here in northern New Mexico
we have geothermal because
of the volcanic activity.
You drill a hole in
the ground, pump water
into the molten lava,
that turns into steam.
That steam drives the
turbines and you've
got a beautiful source
of electricity that's
not dependent on sun or wind.
So these are
examples of the kinds
of things in the near term.
One of the other questions
that people ask all the time
is what about free energy.
As a scientist, what
I can say to you
is the principles of free
energy, the physics exist.
And we are surrounded,
we are bathed
in energy that can be tapped
and used in a very real
and a commercial way.
Realistically, are those
systems available right now?
What I say to people that
ask me this, they say,
why aren't we using
these things right now?
And I say to them, the systems
that are available now,
to the best of my
knowledge I wouldn't want
to depend on those systems.
If I were on an operating
table in an operating room
and knew that those systems
were running all the power--
or if I were in an
airplane depending
upon those systems for
navigation and guidance--
they're not at the point where
I would want those things,
my life to depend upon them.
I think what we're
seeing is a gradation.
It's a phasing in of these
new forms of energy and forms
of economy.
Humans are very interesting
in this respect.
And we've talked about
this a little bit
before in that we seem to
learn what we do not want
by experiencing that first.
Rather than simply
saying, this is the way
we choose to live and
let's put all of our energy
into making these things happen.
It seems that we experience
war, for example,
before we say we don't
want that we want peace.
Or we experience a breakdown
of the financial system
before we say, we
don't want that.
Let's regulate that.
So we could, in a
six month period
of time, the
leaders of the world
could come together
and say, hey, look.
All these new technologies
already exist.
Let's put the world on hold.
Let's put our people to work.
Let's give people jobs.
Let's rebuild an infrastructure
and six months from now
we're going to push a button.
And we're going to be clean,
green, sustainable, smart grid,
and we'll never looked
back at fossil fuels again.
That could happen.
Is it going to
happen, realistically?
Probably not.
So realistically,
what we're doing
is we're doing this
piecemeal, step by step,
as aspects of the centralized
forms of economy--
food, medicine, communications,
energy, defense,
all these things, finances--
as they break down, we're
fixing them piecemeal.
And I'm not saying it's
good, bad, right, or wrong.
It just is a path we've taken.
Ultimately, they
are stepping stones.
They're leading us toward
what you and I both know
is possible for us and
our children in our world.
And that is a world where we
live in harmony with nature.
Localized living is
the way nature works.
And that should be the model
for the way we live our lives.
So one of the questions that
people ask me all the time,
and this is true in
every country I go to,
when they talk about
the economy they're
being very specific about money.
And this is the physical
money that we all use
and that we all depend on.
They say, where are we
going with the money?
What's happening with the money?
So I'm going to preface this.
I'm a scientist and when I
give you a scientific answer
I identify it as a
scientific answer.
I'm not an economist.
I've spent a lot of energy,
my energy researching this.
So I'm going to
share with you what
I have found to be true to
the best of my knowledge.
The global financial
system is changing.
And one of the
reasons it's changing
is because it is now a
global financial system.
We never have had this in
the history of the world.
The world has never been
connected the way that we
see the world connected now.
We've never lived in a
truly globalized society.
And people ask me
all the time, are we
going to a global government,
a one-world government?
Are we going to a
one-world currency?
And my answer is, we're
pretty much already there.
Nobody told us when it happened.
It wasn't like, flash,
CNN, BBC World--
one-world government,
one-world monetary system.
But if you think about it,
we've got a 24/7 global stock
exchange.
We already have that--
24/7 global news, 24/7
global communications,
we've already got
global defense.
We've got global energy
sharing, global technology,
global medicine.
The way that governments
are now working together,
in many respects they are
cooperating in a global sense.
So where are we
going with all this?
Ultimately, ultimately,
at some point,
I think we will see more
of what we would interpret
as a global government.
It doesn't mean that
there is one person that's
dictating what's happening
with everyone else.
It is more of the sense where
the world has the opportunity
to chime in on the input of the
policies that are happening.
And I think you're
already seeing
this happen in our world today.
And the same is true with money.
So this is where
I'm going with this.
People ask, are we going
to lose physical money?
My sense is we will always have
among us in our communities,
we will always have
an Australian dollar,
a Canadian dollar,
an American dollar
to exchange at the grocery
store or for a tank of gas.
But the role of that
dollar is going to change.
And there are already
efforts right now--
the G20 met recently,
this is the year 2017.
2016, and as far
back as 2008/2009,
after the financial
crisis, they've
proposed-- the G20, the 20
most powerful economic forces
on the Earth-- proposing
a cashless society.
So is that good or bad?
Is it right or wrong?
People ask me that, I say, it's
all about how it's implemented.
If it's implemented for the
purpose of bringing people
together for accountability
and to honor people and the way
that we exchange
vital resources,
it could be a very good thing.
If it is implemented
with the greed
that we have seen in the past
from large centralized banks
and corporations--
we already know
what that looks like because
we're living in it right now.
So ultimately,
when we're talking
about a global currency,
is it going to happen?
Well, what I can tell
you, is it's already here.
We already have a
global currency.
It's a currency very few
people have heard about,
but it's already in use
between the central banks.
It's called the SDR.
SDR means Special
Drawing Rights.
This is a form of currency
when the Federal Reserve,
for example, gives money to
the European Central Bank
or something like that.
This is the currency
that they use.
And because it is
a solvent currency,
it is not burdened in the way
that other currencies are right
now, including the
dollar, it's being
accepted as a global currency.
So this is a currency
that's going to be used--
it's already existing--
it'll be used more widespread
and more applications
is how it will be used.
When it comes down to us
and our everyday lives,
this is what people are
really interested in.
As I mentioned, I think we'll
still use our local currencies
for the time being.
Ultimately, I
think we are moving
toward a cashless society.
And there have been movements
that some countries are already
taking denominations of their
currency out of circulation.
And I personally have
been to businesses here
in the United States
that refuse my cash.
I was staying at a hotel,
I had an early flight--
I won't share the name
of the hotel chain.
I went to the front
desk and I was
trying to use credit cards
as little as possible.
And they said, we are not
equipped to take your cash
to pay for this.
And I recently was
at a restaurant
and had the same thing.
I didn't even think
twice about it.
I paid the man cash--
because I don't like to
use credit cards when
I'm traveling so much
because of identity theft
and things like that--
and they refused my cash.
So this is already
happening in some places.
I want to say one
more thing quickly.
In rural communities, the
idea of a cashless society
has been around for
a very long time.
And we see these not only
in the mountain states
or in the high deserts--
Colorado, New Mexico,
Arizona-- but I've
seen them back east, as well.
Barter-- and there are
very formalized ways
of doing barter
where people register
their particular skills
or their talents.
It's like a tally sheet.
And when someone needs
a roof on their house,
the person that can
do the roof goes
and puts the roof on
their house and charges
so many-- they are called green
units-- the system is you don't
exchange them hand to hand.
So many green units went into
putting the roof on that house.
And now someone needs a
transmission in their car.
And another person will
go and the exchange
happens on this tally sheet
so that ultimately people
are getting what they
need from their neighbors
in a sustainable way without
any cash ever changing hands.
It's very difficult to tax.
And this is a
problem where the IRS
has as a big problem with things
like this for this reason.
So it's not a perfect system.
But it is a system that is in
place and is used commonly.
My experience, this is what I
think is happening-- in steps,
we're moving toward
a cashless society.
These are some of
the steps we'll
go through, global
currency, the devaluing
of our local currencies,
ultimately, to the point where
we are electronic currencies.
People ask about
Bitcoin all the time.
I'm not a Bitcoin expert.
I'm not a big fan of Bitcoin.
I like the idea.
The way it was
implemented, I think
it could have been done better.
There are some
loopholes and I think
we've all seen some
of the drawbacks
where the Bitcoin has
lost value overnight
and people lost tremendous
amounts of money.
It can be implemented I
think, in a better way.
But we're in
uncharted territory.
This is the thing.
We are a global community in
an uncharted territory forging
our way forward, trying
to do something has never
been done before.
And I think that's exciting.
And I couldn't think
of a more exciting time
to be experimenting with all
of these different things.
But I think the
key here is, when
we find that something
doesn't work,
rather than clinging
to it and trying
to force a square
peg in a round hole
like we see happening
in the European Union
right now which is
undergoing a change--
Because one policy set in one
nation cannot possibly fit
for all of the 28 nations
that were involved originally
in the European Union.
So it's changing
to reflect that.
And I think the smart
thing for us to do,
if we have the wisdom to
recognize when a system is
no longer working, to
allow the change to flow
and to find new ways to
implement what does work,
rather than trying to
cling to something that's
not sustainable and
forcing it where
people aren't accepting it.
People ask me all
the time if I sense
that we are heading toward a
crash in the economic system,
whether it's America's
economy or whether it's
a global economy?
I don't know the answer to that.
I don't know that we're
heading toward a crash.
What I do know is
this the system that
is in place right now is being
stretched like a rubber band.
And it can only stretch so far.
Something has to give.
Where this stretching
is occurring right now
is the debt that
has been accrued.
When a city goes bankrupt, it
can be bailed out by a state.
Or when a state goes bankrupt
in the United States of America
it's common for the
federal government
to bail out that state.
And we've all seen
that happen and we have
a lot of experience with that.
Here's the question.
What happens when the debt of
the nations of an entire planet
becomes greater than the GDP,
than what they are producing?
What happens when an entire
planet goes bankrupt?
Who bails out a planet?
I don't know the
answer to that, and I
don't know that anyone does.
I think we're going to find out.
Because the debt of
the entire planet,
now, is essentially-- we
are a bankrupt planet.
The major economic nations
have assumed the policy
of creating this debt.
And the money is leveraged
to such a degree,
I think, it will be
very difficult to ever
realistically pay down the
debt, including America's debt.
I think America right now,
our debt ratio is about 105%.
Which means, we
owe more than we're
able to produce by over 5%.
Other nations 30%
and 40% over that.
So if that were you and me, we
would say that we're bankrupt
and we wouldn't be allowed
to function any longer.
Nations continue but
this debt accumulates.
And it accumulates because
of the interest that is
owed on the debt we're paying.
So it is an unsustainable cycle.
Something's got to give.
The question is, do we
have a soft landing?
Do we have leaders who
are proactive and are
willing to actually lead
nations and the world
together into a new
form of economy?
Or do we have a hard landing,
do we have a crash landing
where we wait for
the system to break?
And then we say, OK, here's
what we're going to do.
I don't know the answer to that.
But what I know is, this
is precisely the reason
that the conversation we had a
little earlier about localized
economy is important.
Because what we saw the last
time the economy crashed
is that localized economies
are affected much, much less,
to a lesser degree, than
centralized economies.
So to the degree that we
can keep our money local--
and again, there are
rural communities,
northern New Mexico,
Colorado I'm familiar with
because that's my home--
we encourage buying locally.
We buy our produce locally,
buy our automobiles locally,
instead of going
to another city.
And maybe we get a
little bit better deal.
We spend more money to
keep the money local.
These are the things I think
that will help sustain us
as individuals.
The United States
debt, a lot of people
don't understand
why it happened.
We've had tremendous
amounts of debt before.
World War II, the debt we ran up
was tremendous to fight a war.
And we paid it back
almost immediately.
When citizens, you and I,
we bought savings bonds.
A savings bond was
us buying a bond,
it was loaning the
government some money.
I remember when I was
a kid, for my birthday,
my grandparents would
always proudly hand me,
here's a United
States Savings Bond
you save it until it's
maturity and you put yourself
through college, or
something like that.
But we did that.
We paid back the debt.
Also we levied something called
an income tax, which did not
exist prior to that time.
So the people say, well,
we paid it back then.
Why can't we pay this debt?
Because we already have used all
of the ammunition that we have.
We already have the income tax.
We can't implement
something we already have.
The savings bonds, we
have bonds, as well.
They're called something
a little different,
but they're working
the same way.
And the third thing I
want to say very quickly
is up until early 1970s
our currency was linked,
it was pegged to something that
was solid, tangible, and real.
It was linked to gold.
Gold was about $32 an ounce.
And every dollar that
we held in our hand
was a paper representation,
a convenient way
of using that gold rather than
carrying heavy gold around
or silver in your pocket.
You'd say, this piece of
paper represents that.
And it actually said, a Silver
Certificate on the dollar bill,
or we knew that dollars
were back in gold.
1971, President Nixon
de-coupled the US dollar
from the gold standard.
So that meant that we could
begin printing more money
than the gold could back.
And this is where we started
getting into trouble.
This is where the debt and
the inflation actually began.
So there are proposals
now to go back
to some kind of a gold standard.
Whether that happens
or not, I don't know.
China is amassing
tremendous amounts of gold
to give them
financial credibility.
And they'd like to
go to gold standard.
India is doing the same thing.
Russia is doing the same thing.
So there is a
movement we're seeing
in the markets of
nations amassing
tremendous amounts
of gold, presumably
so that they can
peg their currencies
to this tangible
asset once again
and maybe get this debt under
control for a soft landing.
We'll keep our eyes peeled
and see what happens.
But this is where it looks like
we're going with all of this.
I think it's obvious
to anyone who
is in any way
engaged in the world
that we are, in fact,
living in time of extremes.
And those extremes are touching
every facet of our lives.
And the question that comes up
so many times-- and that I ask,
myself, constantly--
how do we keep positive?
I mean, how do we keep
a positive outlook
and live our lives in a
meaningful, productive way,
in a useful way, every
day of our lives,
knowing that all these
things are happening?
That's one of the
reasons that I've created
"Missing Links" for you.
Because I want you
to know why I'm
optimistic about our future.
I've never been more optimistic
about my nation, the United
States, your nation, all
nations, the world, our future.
I've never been more optimistic.
And here's the reason why.
Because, we now know
what doesn't work.
We know what's broken.
We know what's not
sustainable, on the one hand.
And on the other
hand, we already
have all the solutions to all
the big problems in the world.
They already exist.
We don't have to get all of
the leaders of the corporations
and the politicians
and the spiritual
and the religious leaders
and scientists and engineers
and the technological
people together in a room
and say, OK, figure
this out, because we
did that in the 20th century.
We have all the solutions
to all the big problems.
We have all the
food we need to feed
every mouth of every child,
every woman, every man
on the face of the Earth.
We have the ability
to create energy,
free energy with zero greenhouse
gases and no fossil fuels.
And we've had that
for over 60 years.
We've already
determined that we know
how to build an economy based
upon sharing and cooperation.
Which is very different from
an economy of competition
and scarcity where one person
has what other people need
and they leverage that.
It's a very, very
different way of thinking.
We already have all
of these things.
Here's what's lacking.
People say to me, if we've got
all this stuff, where is it?
Why don't we see it now?
We're lacking the
leadership that
makes it a priority to implement
these things in our world.
We're lacking the leadership
that makes it a priority
to bring into our lives what
already exists in the world.
These things--
they already exist
and they're waiting to
be implemented-- however,
we have leadership.
And I'm not saying it's
the fault of any one
person or any nation.
I'm saying this is
a way of thinking.
And I think many of us as
individuals are guilty of this,
as well.
Because no one in the media--
the media, typically, has
never acknowledged that we're
going through this big change.
And so it's important for the
media to say at some point,
the world has changed and
we're living a new normal.
So without having
said that, so many
of us, consciously
and subconsciously,
are waiting for things
to get back to normal.
We're seeing these
extremes as a little speed
bump in the road
of life and we're
waiting for things
to settle down,
we're waiting for
the dust to settle.
The speed bump is
the new normal.
Volatility is the name of
the game for our lifetimes
and probably our
children's lifetimes,
because we're living the
transition of a global society.
It doesn't mean it's bad.
It just means if we are clinging
to the ideas, the old ideas
of a world that used to be and
were waiting for things to get
back to normal, there's no
room, emotionally, psychically,
there's no room to embrace the
new world that's already here.
And think about this
in your own life.
Think about this
with a relationship.
If you are filled to
the brim with the love
and the passion
of a new romance,
there is no room to
entertain another romance
because you're wired for the
one that's present in your life.
Now I'm using that as an example
because, in many respects,
the romance that we've had
with the world of the past,
if we are filled to
the brim with expecting
the climate, the weather
to behave a certain way,
for spring to start
on a certain day,
the rain to come
in a certain time,
for the economy to move
within certain boundaries,
if we're waiting for that
world, that world is gone.
And the new world now is
this world of volatility.
But the volatility
is where we can
embrace the new discoveries.
Bring in the new economy.
Bring in the new
forms of energy.
Bring in the new jobs.
Bring in the new
forms of healing.
Bring in the new forms
of communication.
It's all, already there.
We lack the leadership that is
willing to make it a priority
to bring these beautiful,
beautiful, amazing, powerful
discoveries to the people
of the Earth to give us
the quality, the healthy
lives, the quality of life
that we all know is possible.
So within that
quality of life we
can thrive, create, innovate,
and bring to the world
our heart's desire.
And that's the world we
all know is possible.
So what does that mean for us?
As long as we live in
communities, or nations
or societies where we choose to
elect people to represent us,
it's incumbent upon us
to hold those elected
officials accountable
to represent
our views and our values.
And when they don't, we need
to let them know about that.
So this is where the
process all come into play.
It brings in a lot
of ideas and it
touches on a lot of things I am
very passionate about because I
know the world that's possible.
And we're right there.
We're just, mm,
we're right there.
And we're going to see
it in this lifetime.
And I vote for a soft landing.
So when people ask
me about where we
are in this time in history--
and many people have
literally asked me,
how do we get out of
this mindset of scarcity?
This is one of those
places where the answer is
in the question, because
the idea of scarcity
is nothing more, nothing
less than a mindset.
It doesn't exist
in the world, it
exists in our
perception of what we're
willing to accept in the world.
Perhaps more
importantly, what we're
willing to accept of ourselves.
Every one of us is a being
that needs to create,
to express in our lives,
in our world in some way.
Our creations and
our expressions
are the fuel that give
meaning to our lives
and contribute in a
meaningful way to our society
and to our economy
if we're talking
about that specifically.
So when people have
asked me, I have never
felt a scarcity in my life.
Although, when I was young,
my father left our family.
We were broke.
We were in debt.
That means you're
broke and beyond broke.
We were so in debt, we lived in
government subsidized housing.
We moved every year, I
went to a different school
in some really
rough neighborhoods.
I never felt that
idea of scarcity,
because I always
had the opportunity
to make my life better.
I always had the
opportunity to find some way
to contribute doing something
that would benefit someone else
and benefit me, as well.
And I think this is the key.
If we're relying upon
our sense of abundance,
if we rely upon
the external world
to give that to us
emotionally and psychically,
it will show up in
our physical world.
So if we're relying
on the outer world
for our sense of well-being,
for our abundance,
and if we believe that it is
a right for us to have it,
we will be disappointed
continuously.
Because the universe
doesn't see it as a right,
it's an opportunity to
create for ourselves.
And when we recognize, when
we perceive the abundance
that is already present--
it's not just about money.
Money is simply an
energy and we're
talking about energy here--
when we begin to
see the abundance
that we have in our lives--
people say, count
your blessings.
And I give thanks of
gratitude the last thing
before I go to
sleep every night.
I give thanks for
the day that has been
and the day that has yet to be.
The day that has been,
I will go through
the highlights and important
things and the people
and what they shared with me.
How they made me feel.
What they offered
me in their stories.
What they offered me in the
ways that we've collaborated
and worked together.
I give thanks for every
one of those things.
And then I give thanks for
the day that is yet to be.
The day that will dawn
when I awake is full.
It is ripe, it is pregnant
with possibilities.
And every one of
those is a potential.
Abundance is a consciousness.
It's a state of being.
And my experience
is, as we embrace
that on the emotional level
and receive the abundance that
is offered to us in so
many ways every day,
that shows up in our economic
and our financial lives,
as well.
It has to.
And that's different than
simply going out and saying,
I need to make money.
Because that comes from
a place of lack saying,
I don't have any.
And this is where
I find people that
have the greatest unhappiness.
Because they'll always
compare what they're
doing to others around
them and they'll
always see themselves
as less than.
Perfect example-- I just had
someone recently say to me,
don't you think it
should be illegal
for people like Bill
Gates to make the money
that he has made?
And I surprise him with the
answer and my answer was no.
I don't think that and
here's the reason why.
Bill Gates is a brilliant man.
He had an idea that
changed the planet.
And he fought to
implement that idea
when it wasn't well-received.
And I was working
in the industry
when this was all happening.
He has empowered
hundreds and hundreds
of thousands of people.
Is he a wealthy man?
Yes.
And he has created hundreds
of other wealthy people, given
people jobs, new technologies
have spun off from the idea
that one man had.
Why would I ever want
to limit his abundance?
The same thing with Facebook,
the founder of Facebook.
Same thing with the
founder of Amazon.
There is a list of the
wealthiest people in the world.
In no way do I
think those people
should have been limited when
it comes to them expressing
their potential in the past.
When it comes to the nuts and
bolts of tax laws and things
like that, it's a
whole different story.
But the principle of what has
happened with them is they
were inspired, just
like you and I.
And they took that
inspiration and they made it
into something real.
And that reality has
changed our planet.
You can do that.
I can do that.
Together we can do it.
And when we begin looking
at things this way,
the idea of scarcity
simply becomes obsolete.
So as we come to the
close of this episode,
if there was a single word that
I could offer to you my viewing
audience that would embody my
sense for everything that we've
talked about that could give
us that sense of security
in a world of volatility
and uncertainty,
what would that be?
And when I ask myself
the same question,
the word that comes to me
just like that is honesty.
I think it's important that
we are honest with ourselves,
about the world that's at our
doorstep, about what we're up
against, individually
and collectively.
Honest, truthful, and factual
about what the new discoveries
are showing--
and that's why I've
created "Missing Links."
And honest with
ourselves about what
it takes to implement
this new world.
I am optimistic and
I'm also a realist.
I'm under no illusion that
it takes a lot of work
to shift the thinking within a
single generation of how we've
lived our lives and
what money means to us
and what savings and retirement
and education and energy
and all those things mean.
It's all changing right now.
I think it's exciting
but it takes work.
And as I've mentioned
previously in this episode,
the prophet Kahlil
Gibran said to us,
"work is our love made visible."
It takes a lot of work to
change the way we think.
I think we're worth it.
And I think this
world is worth it.
And I think it's worth the
work that goes into it.
Because that work is our
way of loving ourselves.
And loving the world, is
our love made visible.
[THEME MUSIC]